README.md, before:

# Sidekiq::PrioritizedQueues

Adds numeric based priorities to your jobs. This is done by monkey patching the following classes:

- `Sidekiq::Client`
- `Sidekiq::Stats`
- `Sidekiq::Queue`
- `Sidekiq::Job`

This gem also adds a new priority based Fetcher, and a middleware that sets priority on the jobs.

**WARNING: This changes the type of the `queue:<name>` keys. There's no migration helper in place, so the easiest way is to start off with a clean setup.**

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'sidekiq-prioritized_queues'
```

## Usage

Simply having the gem in your Gemfile is enough to get started with prioritized jobs. As a default, priority will be the timestamp at which the job is enqueued, as to simulate the default FIFO order.

There are two ways of specifying priority:

### Static

This is useful whenever different workers share the same queue. An example would be:

```ruby
class SatisfySameDayOrderWorker
  include Sidekiq::Worker
  sidekiq_options queue: 'orders', priority: 0

  def perform(order)
    # Do stuff here
  end
end

class SatisfyOrderWorker
  include Sidekiq::Worker
  sidekiq_options queue: 'orders', priority: 1

  def perform(order)
    # Do stuff here
  end
end
```

### Dynamic

For workers on the same queue, the `priority` option can take a `Proc` which will be given the arguments the job was queued with. As an example:

```ruby
class HeavyWorker
  include Sidekiq::Worker
  sidekiq_options priority: -> (account_id) {
    Account.find(account_id).vip? ? 0 : 10
  }

  def perform(account_id)
    # Do some work.
  end
end
```

The example above would make sure that VIP accounts get processed first.

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/publitas/sidekiq-prioritized_queues/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

Commit message:

Allow ignore queues (#8)
This PR adds support for a non_prioritized_queues configuration option that allows specific queues to bypass the prioritization mechanism and use standard Redis list operations (LPUSH/RPOP) instead of sorted sets (ZADD/ZRANGE). This is useful, for example, in scenarios using Sidekiq Pro, as this enables compatibility with Sidekiq Pro's reliability features that don't work with sorted set-based queues.

Key changes:
- Introduces a new Config class to load non-prioritized queues from a YAML configuration file
- Modifies the client push logic to use list operations for non-prioritized queues instead of sorted set operations
- Updates the fetch mechanism to handle both prioritized (sorted set) and non-prioritized (list) queues
- Adds configuration initialization during Sidekiq server and client setup

README.md, after:

# Sidekiq::PrioritizedQueues

Adds numeric based priorities to your jobs. This is done by monkey patching the following classes:

- `Sidekiq::Client`
- `Sidekiq::Stats`
- `Sidekiq::Queue`
- `Sidekiq::Job`

This gem also adds a new priority based Fetcher, and a middleware that sets priority on the jobs.

**WARNING: This changes the type of the `queue:<name>` keys. There's no migration helper in place, so the easiest way is to start off with a clean setup.**

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'sidekiq-prioritized_queues'
```

## Usage

Simply having the gem in your Gemfile is enough to get started with prioritized jobs. As a default, priority will be the timestamp at which the job is enqueued, as to simulate the default FIFO order.

### Priority

There are two ways of specifying priority:

#### Static

This is useful whenever different workers share the same queue. An example would be:

```ruby
class SatisfySameDayOrderWorker
  include Sidekiq::Worker
  sidekiq_options queue: 'orders', priority: 0

  def perform(order)
    # Do stuff here
  end
end

class SatisfyOrderWorker
  include Sidekiq::Worker
  sidekiq_options queue: 'orders', priority: 1

  def perform(order)
    # Do stuff here
  end
end
```

#### Dynamic

For workers on the same queue, the `priority` option can take a `Proc` which will be given the arguments the job was queued with. As an example:

```ruby
class HeavyWorker
  include Sidekiq::Worker
  sidekiq_options priority: -> (account_id) {
    Account.find(account_id).vip? ? 0 : 10
  }

  def perform(account_id)
    # Do some work.
  end
end
```

The example above would make sure that VIP accounts get processed first.

### Non Prioritized Queues

By default, all queues use priority-based (sorted set) operations. However, you can configure specific queues to use traditional FIFO (list-based) operations by marking them as "non prioritized queues". This is useful when you want certain queues to maintain strict FIFO ordering without priority sorting.

Non prioritized queues are configured in `config/sidekiq_prioritized_queues.yml`:

```yaml
non_prioritized_queues:
  - webhooks
  - notifications
  - cleanup
```

With this configuration:
- Jobs in the `webhooks`, `notifications`, and `cleanup` queues will be processed in strict FIFO order
- Jobs in all other queues will be processed based on their priority values
- You can still use priority-based and dynamic queue routing for workers, but if they push to a non prioritized queue, the job will be enqueued using FIFO

This is particularly useful for queues where order of execution is critical and you don't want priority-based reordering to affect the processing sequence.

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/publitas/sidekiq-prioritized_queues/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request
